We don't know her name, but we know her husband.
He was a hard-working fisherman, outspoken apostle, writer of two Bible books, and the only
person besides Jesus to walk on water, we know Peter, that sometimes we forget his wife.
What was Peter's wife like?
What were they like as a married couple?
And what can they teach you 24 married couples?
This is the first time and close to a decade we've had an entire class of only married couples.
Thus we've chosen Peter and his wife so that you can learn specific lessons, that you
can bring to your places of assignment, but especially to strengthen your marriages as
you apply this and you serve together side by side.
Let's begin by reading Mark chapter 1, Mark chapter 1, verse 16.
While walking alongside the sea of Galilee, he saw a Simon, that's Jesus saw Simon and
Simon's brother Andrew casting their nets into the sea for they were fishermen.
Peter's a fisherman.
He brings home the fish.
His wife cooks the fish.
And if she doesn't cook the fish, she sells the fish, like a capable proverbs 31 wife
brings home the money that helps support the house.
It allows Peter to handle his responsibilities all as well.
A great couple working side by side together.
However, life changes suddenly, verse 17 and 18.
So Jesus said to them, come after me and I will make you fishers of men.
And at once they abandoned their nets and followed him.
In faith, Peter abandons his fishing business and follows Jesus.
What did she think about that?
Did she expect that?
Did she become insecure and uncertain now about the future?
Which he feel that her life now has been upended by the decisions of her impulsive,
big-hearted husband, Peter, what are you doing?
We have very good reason to conclude that Peter's wife supported the decision and willing
to and ready to stand right at Peter's side as he took on added responsibilities.
Let's gain more insight into the life of Peter and his wife with verse 29.
At that they left the synagogue and went to the home of Simon and Andrew with James and
John.
While this verse explains that they went to the home of Simon and Andrew, they lived together.
So Peter's wife was agreeable to sharing her living space with Andrew.
His brother and likely the close friends of Peter, James and John, were frequent guests.
And you can hear Peter saying, come over anytime.
And his wife does the cooking.
That's the way it would work.
She could most likely hear the sons of thunder coming.
Here they come.
And Peter says, that's them.
Not more fish.
That's the way it probably would be.
But here's the question, why could Peter feel free to bring his friends home?
And sometimes most likely they came in an unexpected manner because he knew his wife.
And interestingly when he wrote his first letter, he advised husbands to dwell with their
wives according to knowledge.
Peter knew his wife.
And he knew that she would be willing to accommodate the guests because she knew her husband.
That's Peter.
Come on over.
She and Peter were a team.
She knew that having them in the home involved some inconvenience.
Maybe we get that.
But think of the conversations that she would be privy to as Peter and you, James, John
would discuss Jesus' ministry.
She would sit there, oh my, I'm so glad they came.
The blessing that she would get as they talked about Jesus' ministry.
So here's your first big lesson.
Something very similar can happen to you as a couple.
Your husband's good shepherding.
No result in warm conversations and strong friendships are forged.
And that could lead to spontaneous invitations like, say, come on over for a snack and you
get a text, guess who's coming to dinner.
But is it inconvenient at times?
Yes.
But there is a Bible principle.
And the Bible principle here overrides all cultures past and present.
Be self-sacrificing and hospitable.
So be like Peter and his wife.
And think of the spiritual blessings you would receive as you get to know your brothers
and sisters better, that overrides even the inconvenience.
But the self-sacrificing spirit of this dynamic couple doesn't stop there.
Let's read verse 30.
Now Simon's mother-in-law was lying down sick with a fever and they at once told her about
they once told him, Jesus, about her.
So now we learn that Peter and his wife are caring for a parent.
And at this moment she is sick.
And what demands that place is on a married couple, you know that.
And for a sick parent.
And for a married couple to live with one in law, naturally has its challenges.
But living with a brother-in-law and a mother-in-law, now that brings it to an entirely new level.
Can you hear Peter's wife whispering to Peter, your brother Andrew is driving me crazy.
And Peter being tempted to blurt out, but what about your mother?
No.
We're not saying that ever happened.
Nevertheless, we know that living with in-laws and caring for aging parents poses unique challenges for a couple.
That would require great sacrifices.
That's what we're talking about.
However, with sacrifices comes blessings.
Just as we've discussed over and over in class with a sacrifice comes a blessing.
Verse 31.
Jesus performs a miracle right in the home.
Mom is cured.
Imagine that.
What a tender intimate moment this must have been for Peter and his wife.
Thank Jehovah.
They probably said it heartfelt prayer thanking Jehovah.
Intimate, quiet, prayerful.
But look what happens next.
Verse 32 and 33.
After evening had fallen, when the sun had set, the people began bringing to him all who were ill and demon possessed.
And the whole city was gathered right at the door.
Where's the intimacy now?
It went from quiet to chaos.
Imagine the scene, sick people from all over.
Come to Peter's house to get healed.
How would you feel if a whole city of sick and demon possessed people showed up at your door?
Talk about uninvited guests and Peter's wife didn't have time to prepare and plan and make the house a perfect and not yet the table's not right.
The chairs aren't right.
No, that wasn't it.
Things weren't perfect.
And what if a crowd that size damaged the home?
Like the desperate Jews who on a later occasion made a hole in someone's roof to drop down someone so that they could be healed?
At this point, Peter's wife certainly could have complained.
Get these people out of here.
But there is no record of a complaint.
Consider this.
Years later, when Peter counseled wives to cultivate the quiet and mild spirit,
did his wife's example give him the freedom of speech to offer that advice?
And Peter must have thanked his wife, thanked her for her loyally being by his side as they supported Jesus' ministry.
Another big lesson for you.
As you deal with aging parents and health issues, look for Jehovah's blessing and enjoy your periods of calm.
However, remember that we are living at a time when the scene of the world is changing.
And it can change quickly.
A natural disaster, civil unrest, can break out unexpectedly.
And you might have to accommodate those seeking aid.
And though you might not be ready for that, things aren't perfect.
Don't worry about that.
But allow yourself sacrificing spirit to just move forward,
going the extra mile, and husbands don't forget to thank your wife for being by your side
as you respond to the needs of the organization.
First Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 5 indicates that Peter's wife traveled with him for at least some of the time.
Traveling with Peter would have included hard trips, dangerous conditions.
Peter was arrested in Jerusalem one time, two times, three times arrested again, flawed.
This time James was arrested with him.
James is beheaded.
Would Peter's wife say, well, I see my husband again?
It could not have been easy to be married to a man so involved in sacred service.
Between the year 62 and 64, we find Peter who is now perhaps in his 60s,
serving with the need is greater in Babylon, where Jehovah inspired him to write two letters.
As he is finishing his second letter and what now would become the twilight of his life,
how thankful he must have been to have had such a faithful, loving, loyal wife by his side over the years.
All things considered, here's the gold.
Work on selflessly as a team.
Be positive when confronted with unexpected challenges.
And husbands highly value the loyal support of your wife and thank her.
Wives realize that after Jehovah in Jesus, you are probably the closest person that can work intimately with your husband for his success.
And of course, your own.
And for you 24 dear couples, be determined to maintain your stride as you serve together side by side.